I Talk

Preface: I am human

It being the second half of the year 2026 of the Common Era as I write this, I feel
compelled to start with a disclaimer: no AI was used in the writing of this book.

I typed every single letter of this with my own hands, rather achy from a lot of typing
over a very long time.

No AI editing or even grammar checking was used, just spell-checking. In fact checking,
while I did sometimes click on AI generated summaries, in no case did I accept any
claim as true until I saw a primary source.

Whew. Now back to the previously scheduled program.


I Talk
-------

Introduction:


It seems the height of audacity for someone who has really achieved little in life to
start by writing their autobiography but [other examples].

From my very youngest days, it seemed like a lot of people expected me to do something
big and spectacular and important. That thing has not yet been done, and I'm almost certain
that this stream-of-consciousness memoir will not be it either, though when I start
any project at all, I have a little voice telling me that, this time, this will be the one,
people will sit and take notice now and I'll get to hang out with the glitterati.

I was energetic, by fits and starts, and got a lot of things finished, and a lot more
not finished, but I was always in love with everything and so specific things never
exploded. But boy, was it (mostly) fun, and some of it was deleriously great fun.

When I typed fun, I jumped back at that moment to a day, in the early 2000s, when I was
with my friend Daniella Swarovsky in Rotterdam, and we were a bit drunk, and she got me
to hop on the back of her bike and ride a la neerlandaise (like Dutch people do), with
me sitting facing sideways with my legs dangling, something I have not really done since
despite seven years in Amsterdam, and we went pelting off over the bike paths of R'dam
to end up in some auditorium with loud, underground dance music with a fast, thumping
kick drum like a motorcycle, I know know it as Gabba.

She had a joint with tobacco and hash, and I smoked some, and while I was no stranger to
cannabis, the tobacco made my head spin, and we joined arms and spun around and around
and around. So much fun. I've been so lucky to have had so much fun.

And very few flashing lights for techno, in hindsight! I love flashing lights, but more
lights couldn't have made this peak any peaker.

She lived in a squat, just her. She was friends with the owner, and had a contract with
with him. "I guarantee to keep the house occupied, do minor repairs and quickly notify
him if anything major goes wrong, and he guarantees to knock the place down between 5
and 7 years from now."

I was shocked. It was so enlightened, and so un-American. This was neither the first
nor the last time I started to think about whether my eventual future was in Europe.

Daniella died too young.

She was an Austrian artist, curator, and political activist who I had first met living
in Williamsburg, Brooklyn in the 1990s. She was a cheerful yet very skeptical and very
politically aware person who spoke her mind and was tremendously productive.  My
political enlightenment was only about half way at that point, I remember she corrected
me about some history or politics on many occasions and scoffed at things but what those
were are lost, just an impression of her face with her brow slightly furrowed, but she
was awesomely well-informed,

I never questioned her claims in the slightest and time has proven how authoritative she
was. I can't think of one negative aspect of Daniella, which makes her very rare.


What a time that was, when Williamburg was still a place people told you not to
visit, where artists could set up shop and run huge art parties on the waterfront in
places that are now hundred million dollar skyscrapers. Someone once said that you can
tell real New Yorkers because they identify places in the city by the great clubs,
bars or restaurants that used to be there and are now long gone. Capital and real
estate speculation had their way with my oold haunts, one block at a time over decades,
and now it's all Camazotz and ticky tacky.

For several years I did electronic music shows on the electronc wind instrument in a
shop in the East Village that sold only UFO books and bee products, it's impossible to
believe, and wait till I tell you about the Temple of True Inner Light.  Gone, gone all
gone. No one actually believes in change, at the start, only after it has mostly
happened.

There were street corners in the East Village and other places where you could buy
weed on the street, weed with a fairly consistently good quality, for over a decade.

(Heck, there were buildings you could get junk (heroin), just by walking in the door, though
I always drew a sharp line there.)

I got turned on to the possibility of street deals this by my friend Z, who I
collaborated with for many years.

Once I realized this, I immediately started to make a counter-offer, "2 for $15" and
managed to pull it off at least half the time. Z was astonished. He'd never even contemplated
dickering with them, but there were multiple people selling at multiple corners. The good
corner would of course change - for a while there was an East 7th street brand name with a little
stamp on each dime bag.

I really have no idea who I am writing for, if anyone, so I'm just going to explain everything
that is perhaps not common knowledge.

Gamblers and drug users in the United States have a code so they can talk about bets and drugs without
attracting attention, where they divide all their numbers by one hundred.

So if you bet $5 on a horse, it's a nickel, the US word for $0.05. A ten-dollar bag of
pot is a dime. When I first came to New York City, you could get $3 bags of "brown pot",
pot that both smelled and looked like brown dirt. Unlike nickels and dimes, it was sold
in a very small manilla envelope, and you got quite a lot. "It'll get you high," but
really, by this stage in my pot smoking career, it wasn't true at all.

Cannabis in the 60s and 70s was 4-7% THC, but Canada, where I had gone to high school
and university, had plentiful hash, which 10-20% THC, so by this point I was a seasoned old hand.
I discovered that these three dollar bags of brown pot were called treys, which I assumed at the
time came from the word that card gamblers and magicians use for the 3.

The above text is pretty indicative of what is to come, so if you're bored, this is time to shut
the book, or delete the file, or crush the carven stones into sand.

It's going to be discursive and stream of consciousness. I'm going to try to tell it
from start to finish, I intend to re-edit it later to be, well, less incoherent, but I
think if I tried to tell this whole long strange trip in a completely linear fashion, it would be
less fun, more boring, and a lot less me.

There will be steady drug use. Spoiler: no one dies or completely destroys themselves.

There will be music, a lot of music.

There will be a lot of New York City: I spent almost exactly half my life, 32 years
there.  It was the most amazing place, particularly in the 80s, 90s and 00s. It's still
an amazing place but how long can you chew the same stick of gum before it loses all its
flavor on the bedpost?

The decade after we left New York have been full of experiences, really very
comfortable, and some of this time will appear in the following memoir, but I am honestly
tempted to to say, "And they lived happily ever after," following our flight to
Europe. I referred to Amsterdam as "my afterlife" in conversation a few times, and that
makes Rouen my after-afterlife, and how many people get that, while still being alive?
My cup runneth over!

A rich, anonymous person once commissioned philosophers to review his philosophical paper
on the meaning of the universe. He paid off; later, a reporter probably found him, and he
expressed some frustration that the philosphers didn't really get a grip on his theory at all,
but he paid them anyway because they met the terms of the contract.

His theory said that the purpose of the universe is to observe itself, and we as humans
are, at least in this local area, the best universe self-observers ever.

I like the idea that we are here to perceive and gather experiences for universe, so
this book is my way of putting all these amazing, varied, sometimes marvellous,
occasionally awful experiences that I have been so, so, so lucky to have experienced
back out into the universe.


Many people are still alive. They get initials if I can't contact them. I strongly
prefer making people today happy, so I really hope to be as kind as possible, and if
that means skipping some potentially exciting stuff, so be it.

Myrtle pot shop.

Paul Vondra

John Gille
Doug Walker

Getting janked in Times Square; in Washington Square.


second avenue hat

Aunt in New York street deal




I hope my industry will permit me to write out all the amazements and
freedoms that we had at that time, to sketch out some of these images that still
leap out at me if I give them half a chance.


I was walking once with my father through the campus of the university of McGill in
Montreal, I would have been around nine, but I was precocious, and my father said,
"Everyone wants to be a specialist, but there will always be room for a good
generalist."

And I did manage to make a career out of that, and come to a pretty soft
landing here many years later in Normandy, Normandy of all places, a place I knew from
my earliest memories


Let us calibrate our expectations about my memory. It seems to be very good when I can
check it against facts, but definitely not pefect, so when I say, "said," about an event
many years ago, it means, "The idea is correct and many of the words are the same."

I am 100% certain my father said, "a good generalist". I am 95% certain he said, "room
for a good generalist". I know the first half of the statement contained "specialist" or
perhaps "specialization", and I went through a couple of drafts, but it is in some sense
a fiction.



And probably, some of that was due to, well, not bad luck, but lack of very
good luck in this one area of "hitting it out of the park".

To be fair, I did live in New York City for over thirty years and I had at least my share of
celebrity interactions, pretty well all positive, which



celebrity stories

Alan Alda
Gibby x 5
Lou Reed
Mick Jagger
John Cage x 2
Rzewski
Brian Eno
Jim Thirlwell
Terry Riley
Claudia Schiffer

Bronx
  "you look so fine!"


Stimmung
Reich on acid


Jim Semple stories

subway stories
  "I don't care if you're green"
  lost train
  having to pee on 233
  sitting in piss
  block 'em out
  Tom the AIDS leper
  old hispanic guy with a bunny out of a hat

fort green
  mugging
  purse snatching;
  sitting in the park;
  the ambulences;
  lady with a hatpin
  geoff trip
  myrtle avenue, geoff

trip where we sat on second avenue guy in safety tape.

hat on second avenue

story about douglas who turned out to have diabetes.

parties in the anchorage
lalalandia

steam pip
https://tomswirly.medium.com/most-of-your-stories-are-a-weepy-for-me-acts-of-competence-and-heroism-really-hit-me-55d510df4aac
